# Sustaintable Lifestyle Automation through Agentic AI (SLAAAI)

Unsustainable lifestyles are causing profound and largely unnoticed damage to global health. On one hand, unhealthy dietary habits, prolonged sitting periods, disrupted sleep patterns, elevated stress levels, and harmful environmental exposures contribute significantly to health issues such as heart disease, obesity, diabetes, and psychological disorders. For example, since 1980, obesity rates have doubled in Europe, tripled in the Americas, and increased fourfold in Africa. Globally, heart diseases cause about 17.9 million deaths annually; over 800 million adults are living with diabetes, about 500 million with pre-diabetes, and another 240 million remain undiagnosed; and hypertension is affecting the lives of 1.28 billion adults. These escalating health issues not only compromise individual well-being but also impose heavy burdens on healthcare systems worldwide. On the other hand, our unconscious consumption of unsustainable products—including food choices, electronics, and more—significantly impacts the global environment through pollution, deforestation, and climate change.

Wearable devices and smartphone applications have high potential to mitigate these challenges by monitoring personal lifestyle parameters and providing timely reminders of healthy lifestyle choices. Motivated by this potential, we proposed an **agentic AI** system designed to autonomously track data from wearables and smartphone apps, providing actionable insights to foster sustainable and healthier lifestyle decisions. AWS Bedrock’s expansive features and powerful AI capabilities inspired our approach. We used AWS Bedrock builder tools to create our agentic AI solution. We focused initially on a specific aspect of sustainable lifestyle, that is to help customers foster sustainable and healthy dietary habits. We will demonstrate the effectiveness of our solution using real-world customer data, as well as explore how the system can be scaled to broad use cases.
